---
title: Form workshop
tags: UX
status: draft
---

A little while ago my employer invited [Caroline
Jarrett](http://www.formsthatwork.com/), also known as "the form lady". She
spent nearly all of her life dedicated to forms, from before the computer era
to the present day. She worked with the british government to redesign
[their form](http://govuk-elements.herokuapp.com/form-elements/).
She gave a talk mostly about web forms, geared toward the
general public with a focus on big, meaty forms. Habito is a mortgage broker,
and the amount of data we (and the banks) require is fairly large, so we have
*big* forms.  Following is a summary of the hour-long workshop we had.


* What is a form? It's an element which ask questions, and expect answers. A
  search bar is a form, same for login/password fields.

* A form allows someone to achieve a goal. Starts with that when designing a
  form.

* What answers do you need? Think about that before thinking about the
  questions you'll ask.

* Avoid labels *in* the box. The problem is that they disapear as soon as you
  start typing something. Also avoid popover which can mask other elements.

* The field `other` is useful. There are far more choices in real life than in
  computer models. Although it makes automatic processing difficult, it's a
  great way to reduce anxiety for the user, and gather feedback to further
  improve the form.

* Postpone questions (like gender) until the last possible moment. In general,
  only asks what you need for your answers.

* Try to have one topic per page. Having a dozen of question on one page isn't
  necessary bad if they are a logical unit.

* For colleagues (= expert users), density is important. Check UX books from
  pre-internet era.  This is very different from forms designed for a large
  audience. Before pre-internet era, every form was designed and used for
  expert users, and the principles still apply today for web forms.  Density
  and shortcuts are good, and it's okay to require some training.

* Looking at progress indicator is already a sign of distress. No progress
  indicator does pretty well in studies.  Prefer a summary screen where the
  user can chose their route. For example, at the beginning of the form
  journey, present a summary and a way to go to any steps,

* Another way is to begin with a "form builder", where you ask some questions
  at the beginning to build the required questions. Then you can proceed with
  the form summary.

* About checkboxes, tell user "check all that applies", but prefer a list of
  yes/no questions for each choice (forced choice). With checkboxes, it's
  impossible to know if the user answered "no", or forgot to answer the
  question.

* If you don't care about the answer, checkboxes are ok

* Don't disable buttons. Allow clicking and explain why it's not possible. This
  also works better than a mouseover effect (tricky on mobile).

* Consider soft validation. There can be error or incomplete answers, but allow
  user to continue.  At the end of the form journey, when you really need valid
  answers, you can go over the invalid one again.

* Avoid drop down. Prefer radio buttons; a few choices and then "others".

* Validation error: provide informative messages.

* Instead of `?` icon, try providing named link with the question. Also try to
  put more info in the text for the question. A question of two or three
  sentence to explain a bit of context or why the answer is required is
  perfectly ok.

* A/B testing is good, but can't answer the question "why?".

The workshop was very interesting. Designing big, multi screens forms is surprisingly hard,
and doing it with a good UX is even harder.
